The RISK Team sent an advisory about VOBFUS to Verizon’s clients on Monday evening. Trend Micro added to the available OSINT on this malware at almost the same time. We expect to hear more infection reports. We’re also tracking a steady stream of ransom-ware infection reports from SME in Oz. Chris Boyd at GFI (Sunbelt) has a new report on ransomware with screenshots; recent reports indicate ransomware frequently spreads via instant messaging, including Skype. There is something fishy going on with a malicious Apache module tracked by Unmask Parasites and ESET that’s distinct from, but has some symptoms similar to, last month’s Linux rootkit report. It’s payload is the “Sweet Orange” exploit kit analyzed by Blue Coat. The latest proof for “Sutton’s Law” comes from Kaspersky and the first report of Amazon Kindle Fire malware. The QCF haven’t figured out their Warhol allotment has expired as they continued to attack US financial services companies.
This week we collected a number of high-quality open source intelligence reports. McAfee released a report lending credibility to Project Blitzkrieg, and FireEye analyzed a targeted malware attack against Russian targets. Brian Krebs provided interesting profiles on the operators of two well-known botnets.  Ars Technica published two articles on Anonymous’ infamous Commander X. Team GhostShell leaked 1.6 million records stolen from a number of high-profile sites, Anonymous continued OpEgypt and OpIsrael, and the Izz Ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters renewed their DDoS attacks against the financial services sector. Seculert published information on malware dubbed Dexter that’s been infecting point-of-sale systems. Look for Keith Gilbert’s post on this blog with more Dexter analysis; this post and his are going through the publishing process simultaneously.  Microsoft released critical updates for Word and Internet Explorer, Adobe released a critical Flash Player upgrade, and Google announced the latest version of Chrome. Facebook was in the news this week after it helped the FBI dismantle an 11-million-machine botnet and track down 10 individuals operating it.
Intelligence collections this week captured some big numbers, but fortunately no big risks.  Probably the most risk-significant report this week was about some 30,000 customers of European banks who were victims of “Eurograbber,” both a PC Trojan and mobile malware infecting Android, BlackBerry and Symbian devices. Although the Zeus-related Trojans are neither new nor undetectable, Check Point and Versafe claim losses so far are about US $47 million. Things that make the RISK Team go, “Hmm…” no banks or individual victims have confirmed this report.  Reported data breaches this week include JAXA, the Japanese space agency that had a data theft from one infected computer.  Nationwide and Allied Insurance companies announced 1.1 million policy and non-policy holders were the victims of a two-week data breach that began on 2012-10-03.  Criminals claimed to have stolen 1+ million passwords from Macquarie University.  Last week, the AFPannounced the arrest of a 16-member Romanian credit card fraud gang, and this week the FBI announced the incarceration of a 7-member Romanian fraud ring who sold non-existent high-value items on eBay, AutoTrader and similar sites.  Also from the FBI this week, the “Armenian Power Gang” were sentenced to 25yrs at the Graybar Bed and Breakfast.  An insider reportedly stole terabytes of intelligence data from the Swiss NDB including data shared by UK and US intelligence agencies. Thousands of Tumblr blogs were infected with a worm motivated by inappropriate attention-seeking pathology. Vulnerabilities announced in MySQL, Skype, Twitter, BIND, Tomcat and a popular random number generator can all be assessed: “meh.”
DNS hijacking was all the rage this week as evidenced in incidents from Pakistan and Romania. Visitors to a number of sites in both countries were redirected to pages set-up by the hactivists to take responsibility for the hijackings. An unknown number of Go Daddy hosted sites were the victims of DNS hijacking that Go Daddy attributed to phishing; the result was ransomware was offered to site visitors.  Iranian hackers disclosed the contact details of experts and staff stolen from systems of the UN nuclear watchdog, IAEA. Anonymous claimed to have stolen 1 GB of sensitive emails from the Syrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Kaspersky reports some of the files purportedly from this breach are malicious.  In a separate incident, Syria has dropped off the Internet. Chalk a big one up for the good guys: Australian and Romanian authorities busted a Romanian carding ring responsible for $30 million+ in worldwide fraudulent purchases.
Regretably, there was no significant new risk intelligence this week.  We collected several new instances of old problems that remain unsolved. For example: Webroot reminded us criminals like to use credit card problem notices, Better Buisness Bureau notifications and PayPal-related emails as bait to seduce the unwary user to visit a site harboring malware and Black Hole exploit kits.  We collected non-open source intel this week that although these seem old-hat, they continue to be surprisingly effective at spreading malware.  The Xtreme RAT has been cropping up repeatedly in the Middle East since at least as far back as March. This week, Trend and Norman reported it continues to be used to target US, Israel and other foreign governments. “Project Blitzkrieg,” which we weren’t buying into from the get-go, looks to be just as much of a distraction as we suspected. Academics are still researching to discover new problems instead of creating elegant, efficient solutions to the problems we already have. And the goodness of full disk encryption on notebooks still hasn’t sunk in as thousands of NASA employees, contractors and others can now attest to. Full disk encryption (FDE) was mandated by the White House in June of 2006 after the VA’s 26.5 million victim data breach. Risk intelligence very clearly is not rocket science, for which we are most thankful.
The 5th of November has come and gone. Is there anything for us to remember? The answer is yes if you’re Imageshack, Symantec, ZPanel and NBC. Hacktivists with affinity to Anonymous carried out attacks against those organizations and others as part of OpJubilee’s commemoration of Guy Fawkes Day. Team GhostShell set its sights on Russia this week by releasing 2.5 million records stolen from the country’s corporations and government agencies and NullCrew breached sites belonging to the UK Ministry of Defence and UNESCO. Bloomberg announced this week Coca-Cola was the victim of a cyberattack…3 years ago. The China-based attackers were more interested in stealing records related to a pending business acquisition than the company’s cola recipe. FireEye released a report on newly discovered malware it identifies as Backdoor.  ADDNEW and Trend Micro blogged about the infostealing malware PASSTEAL. Microsoft pre-announced 6 bulletins as part of November’s security update, Google released Chrome 23 and Adobe issued a Security Bulletin to address multiple vulnerabilities in Flash Player. Security researchers from Group-IB discovered an exploit for a previously undiscovered vulnerability in Adobe Reader X and XI currently selling for $50,000 in the underground. An Adobe spokesman stated the company would reach out to Group-IB to investigate the issue. RISK Team advice: be on the lookout for a patch in the near future.
Hurricane Sandy and the data breach at the South Carolina Department of Revenue dominated the risk intelligence collections this week. Trend Micro released a very good report on the Russian Underground. Georgia’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-GE) issued their analysis of a cyber conflict campaign including photos of a Russia-based individual they believe orchestrated the attacks. Jaime Blasco at AlienVault published a concise assessment of CERT-GE’s report.  NullCrew continues to draw attention to themselves. Fourteen persons have been charged with attempting to steal over US$1 million from Citibank by withdrawing funds simultaneously from cash advance kiosks in casinos in California and Nevada. Dr. Ari Juels from RSA has an interesting assessment of research into side channel attacks. Criminals attacked Abilene Telco Federal Credit Union and Experian resulting in stolen credit reports for 847 people. Undoubtedly significant for those individuals; on balance, Abilene Telco FCU and Experian probably dodged a bullet. Eight hundred forty-seven could have been much worse.
What do Michaels, Aldi, and Barnes & Noble have in common? They’ve all suffered data breaches as a result of compromised point-of-sale terminals. Barnes & Noble this week announced malware designed to swipe payment information had been installed on card readers in 63 of its stores. It’s probably too soon to tell if Barnes & Noble is the latest victim of an international criminal organization specializing in EFTPOS fraud, but it is reasonable to presume so until intelligence indicates otherwise. Brian Krebs reported on an underground service allowing cybercriminals to pay to access compromised computers at specific companies and U.S. financial institutions caught a break from DDoS attacks for the week. Anonymous made headlines again after it stole a GB of data from the Italian State Police and defaced a UK police site. Sony received good news after a federal judge largely dismissed a class-action lawsuit against the company for April 2011’s PlayStation Network breach. The victory didn’t last long though as reports surfaced of hackers publicly exposing a cryptographic key responsible for locking down PlayStation 3 consoles. Surprising no one, the CIO of the London 2012 Olympics said the games were targeted constantly by cybercriminals. The more important story is operations were not affected by the attacks. And finally, the United Nations released a report outlining terrorists’ use of the internetfor a variety of purposes. TechCrunch’s spin on the report: the internet is dangerous because it’s just so darn open.
Brian Krebs, who has exposed several Russian cyber criminals and Internet cesspools may have finally put himself in serious jeopardy with his recent article in which he dares to assert some smart people working in the education and private sectors are more effective at combating cyber crime than assembled choruses of baby-kissers.  And right before an election!  What was he thinking?  WordPress suffered the compromise of 60,000 of their hosted blogs.  Oracle patched over 200 vulnerabilities in their products, but surprising no one here, complaining about what wasn’t patched started in less than 12 hours.  Apple bailed on Java altogether.  Organizations with mission critical Java apps have to install and maintain Java sans help from Cupertino.  For those keeping score: it really has been more than a month since Kaspersky discovered new “state-sponsored” malware. Other new entries in the “state-sponsored” file come from US Secretary of Defense Panetta who seems to be the first to confirm, without qualifications, that Shamoon struck Aramco and also hackers breached critical infrastructure control systems (other than Illinois water plants). Note for Santa: it would be sweet to have just one reliable source with technical foundation. Sixty-five more days of phishing, FUD and exaggerated alarms until Christmas!
Fundamentally, intelligence supports a decision maker by providing factual information.  Colin Powell sucinctly captured the challenge of decision making based on partial information.  One of this week’s leading issues in risk intelligence is an example of decision making without supporting factual information: the US House of Representatives issued a report critical of Chinese telecommunications companies Huawei and ZTE. Among the recommendations: “U.S. government systems, particularly sensitive systems, should not include Huawei or ZTE equipment, including in component parts.” The Economist concisely observed the report “appears to have been written for vegetarians. At least, there is not much meat in it.” We did collect substantial intelligence this week.  Capital One, SunTrust and Regions banks all joined the ranks of US financial institutions targeted for DoS attacks.  Brian Krebs confirmed most of last week’s report from RSA on “Project Blitzkrieg” or the “Gozi Prinimalka” threat, so our assessment has changed from “unconfirmed and not actionable” to “confirmed and (still) not actionable.”  Skype users were targeted with a triple threat worm: ransomware, Blackhole and Zeus.  Microsoft issued seven security bulletins, Adobe released one for Flash Player, we had two new Google Chrome updates in one week, and Mozilla issued, withdrew and reissued Firefox 16.
Every week there seems to be winners and losers in the security space. This week’s big winner is the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Not only did it crack a global tech support scam, it also won a 163 million dollar lawsuit against a scareware ring. This week’s big losers are the world’s top universities breached by Team GhostShell. The hacktivist group leaked thousands of personal records belonging to students, faculty, and staff at several prestigious institutions to protest the state of education in the United States and Europe. The White House also came up short this week after it confirmed an unclassified network in its Military Office fell victim to a targeted email attack. Anonymous targeted Swedish websites in retaliation for a raid on a Swedish hosting company serving up pirated content. Microsoft pre-announced 7 bulletins as part of October’s Black Tuesday update and in a blast from the past, SecureState reported MS08-067 is still being actively exploited in the wild. You read that correctly, it’s from 2008. Trusteer continued to do what it does best and released a report on a new Man in the Browser attack technique. 4.5 million Brazilian DSL modems were compromised with malware because of one firmware vulnerability; it’s like DNSChanger all over again. In this week’s best collections, Brian Krebs offered useful advice on addressing previously undiscovered vulnerabilities and FireEye analyzed email attack trends from 2012’s third quarter. Consider them winners too.
Hmmm…which was the more important risk intelligence collection this week?  Continued denial of service attacks on US financial services companies or Adobe’s announcement of a pwned code-signing system?  /flip=Tails. Adobe — before anyone dons a tinfoil hat, all we know for certain is samples of two pieces of malware were submitted to Adobe with legitimate Adobe digital signatures. Malware with digital signatures has plagued us at least as far back as Stuxnet.  Adobe states there was no breach of source code or of the ubiquitous desktop runtimes such as Flash Player, Adobe Reader, Shockwave Player, or Adobe AIR.  So far, this is a big deal for Adobe, but risk for the rest of us seems almost unchanged.  Dancho Danchev published an OSINT analysis of “Operation Ababil” the DoS attacks against Wall Street and US financial services companies. Those continued this week with US Bank, PNC Bank and Wells Fargo suffering availability losses.  Don’t let Brian Krebs’ report on an intrusion at Telvent Canada Ltd fall through the cracks among the rest of this week’s intel.  Most widely useful collection this week: Tom Eston @SecureState updated his Facebook Privacy & Security guide.  Don’t go home without it.
It’s déjà vu all over again. There’s another previously undiscovered vulnerability being actively exploited in the wild and this time it belongs to Internet Explorer. Microsoft released a Security Advisory and issued an out-of-cycle bulletin on Friday 21 September to address the flaw. It should come as no surprise the group behind this exploit is the same one behind the previously undiscovered Java vulnerability from a few weeks ago and the Nitro campaign discovered by Symantec last fall. Are we having fun yet? An Islamic hacking group is taking responsibility for DDoS attacks against Bank of America, the New York Stock Exchange and JPMorgan Chase to protest the more-than-controversial “Innocence of Muslims” YouTube video. The Grum botnet tried to stage a comeback, and failed, but unfortunately the TDL4 and ZeroAccess rootkits cemented their places as significant malware threats. Imperva and Dell SecureWorks both win this week’s award for producing the most actionable intelligence collected by the RISK Team. Imperva provided A Comprehensive Guide to DDoS, which is entirely fitting considering this week’s news stories, and Dell released a report on a cyber-espionage campaign against the energy sector dubbed Mirage. And in epic user fails,1,000 Taiwanese government employees must undergo security training after clicking on a link to an adult video as part of a security audit. Oops!
This was a week when our skepticism resupply deliveries used dump trucks like these.  AntiSec says they stole 12 million records, published 1 million Apple iOS UDID’s, said they’re from the FBI, and we should believe them why?  Because they’re such nice lads and they wouldn’t lead us astray?  Hello?  The Bureau’s artfully worded statement was: “At this time there is no evidence….”  Although the wrangling continues, stolen UDIDs probably do not merit the hype. During the U.S. Presidential campaign season, headlines from the election often make their way into the InfoSec space. A hacker claimed to have tap-danced into a PWC office late one night to steal Mitt Romney’s tax records. And the RISK Team believes that one why?  We do not.  We do have confidence in intelligence that attacks continued against Oracle’s recently patched Java vulnerabilities and Apple pushed patches for OS X’s flavor of Java. NullCrew accessed 8 servers belonging to Sony but may have only 400 names and email addresses to show for their crime and they also targeted Cambodian government sites following the arrest of a founder of The Pirate Bay. Microsoft pre-announced just 2 bulletins for 4 vulnerabilities as part of next week’s Black Tuesday update. The RISK Team would not be surprised if you just let out a sigh of relief. We could all use a break after last week’s Java headaches.
Give Oracle an “attaboy” for their speedy reaction and patch issue for three newly publicized vulnerabilities in Java, one of which is already being used in targeted attacks. If only they hadn’t been reported to Oracle in April. If only Oracle had communicated with their customers on Monday to let us know a patch would be forthcoming. If only the exploit had not been discovered in the Blackhole exploit pack, and if only the Java vulnerability had not been tied to the Nitro attacks on the energy sector. If only Apple had also patched OS X’s Java implementation. In other energy sector news, Qatari oil and gas company RasGas is the victim of a malware attack from an as yet unreported malware. And Saudi Aramco acknowledged the attack that struck them two weeks ago, and were reported to have suffered a second attack this week. And last but not least in energy, the RCMP has warned Canadian energy companies that they may be targeted by Anonymous-affinity miscreants. We’ll also give you dear reader, an “attaboy” if you refresh your  coffee (patch your Java) within a week, because that’s the RISK Team’s recommendation.
What does 32kb of data get you these days (that’s right 32 KILOBYTES)? A place atop this week’s InfoSec headlines. Newly formed hacking crew r00tbersec breached AMD’s blog site and stole 32kb of usernames and hashed passwords. r00tbersec also claimed to steal data from Philips but it seems they just regurgitated another hacker’s breach of Philips from February. Anonymous DDoSed several UK government websites after it refused to allow Julian Assange to travel to Ecuador where he’s been granted asylum.  Déjà vu: Adobe released another patch for Flash this week and last week’s Flash vulnerabilities continue to be exploited in the wild. Another familiar story: industrial control system devices manufactured by RuggedCom contain a serious vulnerability.  Saudi Aramco was threatened again following last week’s malware and DDoS attacks which may be related to the Shamoon malware. IKEA announced it was removing self-checkout lanes from its U.S. stores because they slow down operations. And they slow down operations because they’re TOO secure. Before you know it IKEA will be assembling its own furniture because the instructions are TOO easy to follow.
“London Takes Gold in Cybersecurity” in Core Security’s blog, Mark Hatton sticks the landing. We hyper-focus on failures and weaknesses and seldom pause to celebrate our successes and strengths. There are about half a million hits in Google for London Olympics “cyber attack.” The result from the ”mother of all opportunities” for hackers, including a new threat to the Olympics’ power supply: to use a British idiom – a damp squib. Thank you Mark. We did collect intel on plenty of failures and weaknesses. This week’s cycle of “state sponsored attacks” was reported by McAfee and Symantec and is called Shamoon or Disttrack.  This link is de rigueur, because it can’t count as “state sponsored” until Kaspersky says so. Australian Federal Police reported the breach of half a million payment cards. There was a partially successful DDoS attack on an Internet backbone provider. Microsoft issued nine bulletins and one is being used in targeted attacks. Adobe issued three bulletins and Flash is being used in different targeted attacks. To all our fellow InfoSec professionals who protected the London Olympic Games: very well done!
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice… Kaspersky Labs discovered the Gauss malware campaign affecting countries across the Middle East with the majority of infections centered in Lebanon. “State-sponsored” started trending worldwide.  Gauss phones-home to its command and control servers using xOR encryption.  The key? 0xACDC.  ACDC?  Where have we heard ACDC lately?  Oh!  It was the still unconfirmed Iranian nuclear plant Thunderstruck virus!  Gauss is mildly interesting, but the risk to Verizon Enterprise Solutions customers: LOW. In hacking news, Reuters’ blog network and Twitter account were compromised by pro-Syrian government hackers and Anonymous targeted the Ukrainian government after it shut down the Demonoid torrent site. Microsoft pre-announced 9 bulletins addressing 10 vulnerabilities as part of next week’s Black Tuesday update. Joining Microsoft in patching critical vulnerabilities next Tuesday will be Adobe which plans to release a Security Update for Reader and Acrobat. A must read article this week is technology journalist Mat Honan’s personal account of how his digital world was turned upside down when his Amazon, Apple, and social media accounts were pwned by hackers. And if you’re in the market for a new TV, consider avoiding third-party retailers on Amazon unless you want to receive a Sig Sauer assault rifle in the mail. It’s not paranoia if people really are out to punk you.
If it sounds too good to be true…Last week’s Iranian nuke plants infected with virus that plays AC/DC should have set off the olfactory alarms, but it was so conveniently cool to buy into it. This week the Chief of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization rightly asked, “who seriously believes such a story?” Both should be in the unconfirmed files. About 10% of the world’s population had their plans put on hold due to a historic power blackout.  Nine million Korea Telecom customers had their account information stolen and sold to telemarketers, seven of them have been arrested as were the two data thieves. If you are not 100% certain the Java installed on you system is up-to-date, check it at Java.com. Attacks on Java versions prior to June 12th are in-the-wild. Exploits are in the infamous Blackhole exploit pack. CVE-2012-1723 is the crucial vulnerability and there  is every indication it is becoming a milestone vulnerability. “Hey you remember all the pwnage from that Java vuln back in the summer of ’12?” In May, Roger Grimes explained how “just uninstall” is unrealistic and simplistic.  Let us balance the scales after the AC/DC distraction with a suggestion to study one of the best risk intelligence collections this week: Dell SecureWork’s Joe Stewart published Chasing APT, an in-depth analysis of two criminal organizations responsible for systematic espionage and data theft.
Black Hat and DEFCON are upon us dominating the InfoSec headlines. Reverse-engineering irises to thwart biometric scanners, exploiting NFC to infect phones with malware and hacking hotel room keycard readers are just a fraction of the monsters in the closet coming from Las Vegas this week. You can also add “abuse of functionality” by a Black Hat volunteer to that list after he/she spammed conference attendees with a password reset email. In real (vs. imagined) threatnews, we learned this week more than 8 million accounts were compromised at Gamigo in a February data breach. Also, Anonymous Australia targeted several Oz government websites and breached an ISP to protest policies on data retention. Seculert and Kaspersky continued to blog about the Mahdi malware campaign after a variant compiled just this week was observed in the wild. The Mac malware catalog grew this week as OSX/Crisis (AKA Morcut) was discovered spying on Mac users. And in a bizarre turn of events, an employee of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran emailed F-Secure to report malware causing computers at Iranian nuclear facilities to blast music by AC/DC. The RISK Team assesses Iran’s been ‘Thunderstruck.’
Good news or bad news first? Let’s lead with the good: The world’s third-largest botnet was taken down this week and the infamous Dave and Buster’s hacker who stole details on 240,000 credit cards will sit behind bars for 7 years. And the bad news: A new malware is sweeping the Middle East and its name is Mahdi. Anonymous claimed to have breached several oil companies and leaked 1,000 email addresses and passwords, but Salvador Grec’s skeptical analysis is probably onto something.  Anonymous also DDoSed the website of the Syrian Electronic Army, though the latter claims it’s not true. Team GhostShell breached the employment web site IT Wall Street and leaked 50,000 account details to show its affinity for the Occupy Wall Street movement.  2.4 million Canadian voters are worrying after 2 USB sticks containing their personal information were lost this week. And in this week’s bizarre file an employee of an Australian ISP admitted to deleting company files and emails and threatening to literally axe his boss during a workplace blow-up. Talk about a tough day at the office.
At least two million passwords are overdue to be reset following this week’s reported breaches including Yahoo!, Nvidia and Formspring with more than 400,000 each. Phandroid reported a million user ID’s were at risk.  Microsoft delivered on their nine security bulletins and then upped the ante with a Security Advisory to turn off Windows 7 Gadgets and Sidebar. Oracle pre-notified for 88 vulnerabilities to be addressed in their quarterly Patch Tuesday due next week.  The great Internet shutdown of 2012 due to DNS Changer was a dud. And the latest entry in the “you can say anything about cyberspace when no one can prove you wrong” files belongs to GEN Keith Alexander who declared cybercrime constitutes the greatest transfer of wealth in history.  Alexander, Attila, Genghis Khan, and T. Boone Pickens all said, “Hey! What about me?”
The United States celebrated Independence Day on Wednesday but some of the fireworks continued Thursday as Microsoft pre-announced 9 bulletins patching 16 vulnerabilities. We’ll have to wait until Tuesday to see if Microsoft has included a permanent patch for the XML Core Services vulnerability in this batch of bulletins. Trend Micro continued its streak of publishing useful intelligence by releasing a three part analysis (1,2,3) of malicious code exploiting the XML vulnerability in the wild. Exploit code for that vulnerability has already made its way to BlackHole where Brian Krebs reports a new Java exploit will be joining it. The Indian Navy was plagued by Chinese malware on USB drives and Sykipot reared its head again to target the aerospace industry. Chinese hackers were arrested after they tried to extort money from Chinese companies in return for not DoSing them and the WikiBoat severed all ties with Anonymous. Amazon’s Northern Virginia data center suffered a second outage in as many weeks after severe storms struck the Washington Metropolitan Area. And on this week’s ridiculist, a computer glitch in San Diego was the likely culprit that caused the city’s entire fireworks display to blast off all at once, although one source blamed the ill timed ignition on a computer virus.
McAfee hit the exacta in risk intelligence this week with two reports:  the first half of their “Technology Security Assessment for Capabilities and Applicability in Energy Sector Industrial Control Systems” report captures security issues in the power grid including smart grid technologies.  And their report on “Dissecting Operation High Roller” concisely assesses crimeware, especially Zeus and SypEye.  The trifecta includes the Trend Micro report on automatic transfer systems malware collected last week.  They provide situational awareness of financial fraud crimeware threats. Other jackpots this week include the 24 suspects arrested as part of “Operation Card Shop,” guilty pleas from two former members of LulzSec and a Carberp crimeware botmaster was arrested in Russia. Perhaps it’s time to recall the admiral in Voltaire’s Candide and revisit lifetime Internet bans.
Last week’s vulnerability headlines became this week’s exploit headlines. Reports of state-sponsored attacks against Microsoft’s unpatched XML Core Services vulnerability continued this week as Sophos blogged about two compromised European websites serving up exploits. Metasploit released exploit modules for the XML vulnerability as well as for an Internet Explorer vulnerability patched in last week’s Microsoft Bulletins. In an increasingly popular tactic hackers from Bangladesh and Myanmar used cyber-attacks to spar over the flare-up of a regional conflict. A hacker claimed to breach 79 banks. Or not. Little known hacking collective Rex Mundi tried to extort money from AmeriCash Advance and UGNazi continued its usual behavior. Surprising no one, reports surfaced citing unnamed Western officials that Flame was a precursor to Stuxnet. In other malware news, Trend Micro discovered a new financial fraud tool and ESET came across AutoCAD malware apparently committing industrial espionage for China. Jeffrey Carr presents a convincing case for increased risk of espionage among aerial drone companies.
InfoSec professionals who are also partial to country-western classics were probably caught humming Dickie Lee’s “Patches” this week as we’re managing more than a dozen patch and vulnerability announcements.  We were expecting the seven security bulletins from Microsoft, but we weren’t expecting a security advisory on another vulnerability in XML Core Services that’s already under attack.  Attacks were also reported on one of the vulnerabilities in this week’s MS12-037.  We expected Oracle to release a Java CPU, but then Apple broke with their tradition of lagging weeks behind on Java updates and released a parallel OS X Java update too.  There’s a flashback pun here somewhere, but after Flame, we’ve exhausted our pun supply for 2Q. Adobe didn’t want to be left out so they released an update for seven vulnerabilities in Flash Player and one in Cold Fusion. There’s an authentication bypass vulnerability in MySQL and a remarkable silence from it’s developers. A Metasploit module was released for a February vulnerability in F5′s BigIP and other products that F5 patched in June. The PHP Group released new versions, and there are newly discovered vulnerabilities in Ruby on Rails and Intel CPUs.  Are we having fun yet?
It has been an unusually tough week for leaked passwords. LinkedIn, eHarmony, and Last.fm all reported data breaches with users’ passwords being posted online. What we don’t know or have confidence in: when or how long ago the breaches occurred and if the full extent of the breaches is known and reported, e.g. what other data, like user names or payment card were compromised but have not been made public. Verizon’s 2012 Data Breach Investigations Report has taught us to be cautious with conclusions and assumptions with new breach reports. Flame malware continued to make headlines as Microsoft released a security advisory to address the MD5 digital signing algorithm the malware used to impersonate the company’s products. Microsoft also pre-announced 7 bulletins to address 28 vulnerabilities as part of June’s Patch Tuesday. In hacking news this week, reports circulate  on Mitt Romney’s Hotmail and Dropbox accounts being hacked and SwaggSec took responbility for attacks on Warner Bros. and China Telecom. Facebook followed Google and announced it would inform its users if their computers are affected by DNSChanger. And finally, Google said it can now inform you if your Google account or computer is under state-sponsored attack. Not surprisingly Google was mum on how its warning system works.
If W32/Flamer really was the product of the US government, Congress would have named it: “The Full Employment of Tech Journalists and Pundits Act of 2012, and 2013″. FETJPA? Flame is another example of the discovery of an unknown-unknown. We can acknowledge there are things we don’t know, but then we may discover something that wasn’t even in our imaginations, not really. It’s one thing to say, “I’m sure there are things on my network I’m unaware of,” but it’s quite another to learn about a 20Mb multi-component information gathering Trojan that may have been there for years. Instead of focusing on Flame, focus on protecting the data from all unknown-unknowns. “What should I be doing to protect my most valuable information assets from unknowns and how can I learn immediately when an unknown touches them?” For example, Danish security firm CSIS reported a new banking Trojan comprised of only 20Kb of code and using RC4 to encrypt its communications. And the FBI is warning of a combination of another banking Trojan, Citadel, deployed with ransomware Reveton to convince users the US government has frozen their computer until a US$100 fine is paid. And Trend Micro cyber warfare expert Nart Villeneuve contributed to their latest report on the IXESHE APT Trojan. Note to colleagues:  we really gotta do something about that acronym. Figuring out what the “A” in APT means from this week to next is like changing the tire on a moving bus.
This week’s intel in the InfoSec space can be summed up with a simple phrase: more of the same. Anonymous hacked the U.S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Statistics and stole 1.7 GB of data, most of which were crime statistics. The Anonymous affiliated ATeam DDoSed NATO’s official website as part of online protests related to NATO’s summit in Chicago. Hacking collective UGNazi was at it again this week. It leaked 1.7 GB of data stolen from billing processor WHMCS after it erased the data from the company’s servers. What else is more of the same? Trusteer reported on financial Trojans affecting Germany and Google continues to have problems with Android malware. Oh, and DNSChanger made headlines again this week after Google announced it will help notify users if their machines are infected. In must-read material, McAfee released its Q1 2012 Threat Report this week. The bottom line: PC and mobile malware are on the rise and spam is on the decline. And to top off this week’s theme of “more of the same” Google released yet another updated version of Chrome.
I don’t think anyone on the RISK Team is lining up today to get in on Facebook’s IPO. Although Facebook probably provided the most interesting InfoSec risk development this week with their new “LilyJade” worm. While on the subject of Facebook, the RISK Team offers our begrudged admiration to Ascend Media. They generated $20 million in likejacking revenue and settled their legal challenges for court costs of only $100,000. We cannot confirm Bernie Madoff’s reaction was “Wow!”  Otherwise InfoSec intelligence this week was interesting, but not important. There’s a new report of alleged Chinese APT attacks. Activist vigilantes got more attention than they deserve. And an un-regulated Internet bank lost money to hackers; can you imagine that?
Apple, Adobe, and Microsoft dominated InfoSec headlines this week by releasing multiple security updates to patch dozens of vulnerabilities. Microsoft led the pack with 7 bulletins for 23 vulnerabilities. Last week’s Adobe Flash Player vulnerability continues to be exploited in targeted attacks. And attacks on last week’s PHP-CGI vulnerability emerged this week. The PHP Group released another patch this week after last week’s patch failed to eliminate the flaw. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued warnings of a targeted campaign against gas pipelines in progress since December 2011. Following last fall’s debunked reports of a hack on a Springfield, Illinois water pump it’s easy to be skeptical, however, there’s too much evidence to simply disregard the threat. In other hacking news, Ustream, Virgin Media, and the Kremlin were all targeted by DDoS attacks, the latter two were at the hands of Anonymous. Speaking of DDoS attacks and hacktivism, Sam Bowne’s four part Defcon presentation (1,2,3,4) on both topics is the best intelligence collected this week and is more actionable than the FBI’s vague warnings on the malware risk posed by foreign hotels.
InfoSec risk was substantially unchanged this week.  Intell collections generally fell under the categories of “more of the same,” or “vulnerability without a problem.” Ransomware, drive-by-downloads of known Trojans, and Android malware reports were simultaneously new and not new. May’s Microsoft Tuesday forecast is for seven bulletins, Google updated Chrome and OpenX ad platform is serving up malware again.  Oracle released an out of cycle update for TNS Listener but the back-story is just too weird to bother with. There have been no reported attacks on it, nor are they likely over the short-medium term.  Required reading: Symantec’s Internet Security Threat Report 17 for 2011, but they decided to “go for the gold” (pardon the pun) in graphics at the expense of content.  It’s still good, just not as good.  If you’re from Pittsburgh, you’ll love the look.
Required reading: Microsoft Security Intelligence Report 12 for the last half of 2011.  The SIR is second to none as an InfoSec intell source and has few equals. The Microsoft Security Blog has begun running weekly summaries most of our readers should find useful. Most current intelligence collections come from outside North America. Iran’s oil ministry was targeted by malware and hackers, and they preemptively disconnected from the Internet. Nissan and Al-Arabiya announced they were victims of cyber attacks. Chinese and Filipino hackers are carrying out cyber attacks against each other over the two nations’ spat over the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea. And a Chinese hacker leaked old VMWare source code, but VMWare’s enigmatic statement neither confirms nor denies a breach took place. They stated the leak “does not necessarily mean that there is any increased risk.” “Holy doublespeak Batman!”
An Iranian engineer threw a tantrum and dumped the credit card information of 3 million of his countrymen and women on his blog and fled the country. In all the fuss and finger-pointing over the Flashback malware, another OS X Trojan is “getting legs.” Some users, having applied Apple’s Java patch and Flashback removal tool, may not grasp OS X.SapPub doesn’t exploit Java. It does exploit a 34-month old, patched, vulnerability in MS Word. Kaspersky reports SapPub is  related to an APT, LuckyCat. It’s a big election year in the States, so a report emerging from University of California-San Marcos of election hacking may “get legs” as well. Some Chinese hackers took a break from “hacking every major US company,” to hack three Chinese pharmaceuticals they perceive are responsible for tainted drugs.  Some good news: none of the major data centers in the Dallas Texas area experienced major disruptions when at least 21 tornadoes swept the area on 2012-04-03.
Vulnerabilities and patches dominated the InfoSec environment this week. Microsoft, Adobe, and Cisco all released major security bulletins. Google released another update to Chrome. Over the last couple weeks, patches have been released for almost every Mac and Windows computer on earth. Now Linux/Unix admins won’t feel left out as they have a Samba update to apply. In malware developments, targeted attacks are continuing against Tibetan activists and the Flashback Mac Trojan continues to make headlines. Kaspersky Labs reported over the weekend that it observed only 237,000 active bots connecting to Flashback’s C&C servers (down from 650,000). But then again it was the weekend. Speaking of the weekend, Anonymous carried out several DDoS attacks against UK government sites in response to last week’s news that the government wanted to expand its internet surveillance powers. TeaMp0isoN got its name in the headlines for allegedly “phone bombing” MI-6 headquarters in London and going so far as to record a conversation between an MI-6 officer and an individual believed to be an FBI agent. What were they discussing? TeaMp0isoN, and just before midnight Thursday, The Telegraph reported two TeaMp0isoN arrests; there’s probably a lesson in there somewhere. And finally, a new hacking collective introduced itself this week by carrying out attacks against several websites. MalSec is the name of the group and it claims to sympathize with the ideals of Anonymous while being in it for “more than the lulz.” Plus they disapprove of stealing personal information and harming the public. How noble.
The reported breach of 1.5 million credit card records from payment processor Global Payments leads this week’s OSINT. Adobe pre-announced security advisories for Acrobat and Adobe Reader, and their new priority ratings indicate Reader and Acrobat version 9 on Windows is already under attack. In addition to Adobe advisories, we’re expecting six Microsoft security bulletins on Tuesday. Russian anti-virus Dr. Web reported 500K OS X systems are infected with the Flashback Trojan which exploits a Java-related vulnerability on OS X. Apple released a patch  for their Java implementation on Monday and updated it early Friday. Australia’s Defence Signals Directorate released iOS hardening guidelines. Criminals claiming Anonymous affinity compromised hundreds of government sites in the People’s Republic of China and internal files from a PRC defense contractor were posted online. Schadenfreude has no place in our profession, no one deserves to be a victim.  The usually very reliable DEBKA reports a Stuxnet mutation is attacking the Iranian Fordow facility. Helpful collections this week include tips from Cyveillance for protecting your company’s reputation on Google+.
“Keep Calm and Carry On” was a classic propaganda poster in the UK during the Second World War. InfoSec professionals: consider dusting it off and posting it in your office because intel collections this week paint a dire picture. Shawn Henry, Assistant Director of the FBI declared “We’re not winning,” in the Wall Street Journal.  James Lewis at the Center for Strategic and International Studies is “a little bit gloomier.”  Oh, oh, another water district was hacked, but hold on, it was the district’s CFO; does that count? Dick Clarke told The Sminthsonian Magazine the US may already be losing the cyberwar. The Sydney Morning Herald says 10,000 Australians face web blackout; wow, that’s like 5 one-hundredths of one percent of the country. LulzSec is back (maybe), and Occupy is in “spring training” for May Day. Adobe dropped another Flash Player update and Oracle revised their January CPU for the hash collision vulnerability that we have no attack reports of. Do not lose heart, the RISK Team and thousands of your colleagues are solving problems 24x7x365; we’ll still be here next week.  Listen to The Chairman and Carry On. (Bonus: ID the RISK Team member in the video?)
It’s that time of year again. Spring is upon us, flowers are budding, and The RISK Team and Verizon have released the 2012 Data Breach Investigations Report. Be sure to add it to your reading list. Speaking of data breaches, the University of Tampa reported that it mistakenly exposed information on 30,000 individuals for 8 months due to a server error and the UK-based Student Loans Company copped to leaking 8,000 customer email addresses. As for things that got attacked this week, a Saudi hacking group claimed to steal data on 400,000 Israelis from the Israeli sports website One, S3rver.exe defaced the website of the International Police Associate of Australia, and BlackJester has electronically taken a Qwest data center server hostage so that the company will contact him about its vulnerabilities. Not too long ago BlackJester walked into a UN office to report vulnerabilities in the organization’s website. Reporting vulnerabilities is one thing, taking a server hostage is a different beast altogether. A recently compiled Duqu driver was observed in the wild by Symantec and Kaspersky got answers to a question it had crowd sourced about the malware’s code. And finally, in a case of pot calling kettle black, China said it has observed an uptick in cyber-attacks recently and blames the United States, Japan, and South Korea.
Cyber warfare was the dominant theme in risk intelligence this week.  The BBC reported a denial of service attack on both Internet and telephone systems with indications of Iranian involvement. Alienvault reported targeted attacks on Tibetan dissidents. Almost three years ago the Wall Street Journal reported attacks appearing to come from the People’s Republic of China had stolen Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) plans from Lockheed Martin. The second of three primary JSF contractors, Northrop Grumman was named in both the Aurora attacks and, with Lockheed, in post-RSA attacks last summer.  Completing the trio this week, loose lips at the dinner table confirmed BAE Systems was also breached, also apparently from the PRC. Déjà vu? No, it’s the same story retold, three times now. The Virtual Israeli Air Force School (private sector) was breached to the tune of about 9Mb of data. Islamic Nasheed Bank (not a financial institution) was compromised. And unaffiliated irandefense.net was compromised and 2800+ account details posted to pastebin.
At the very end of the credits for the film “Ferris Bueler’s Day Off“, Matthew Broderick’s character, a Chicago native, shoo’s the audience home.  Contrary to the headlines, Chicago native Jeremy Hammond won’t be shooing us all home as if the world’s computer security problems have been solved with his arrest along with the arrests of four LulzSec confederates.  To be sure, LulzSec had to go, but our most threatening adversaries are still in business.  Worth reading: Microsoft’s “The evolution of malware and the threat landscape – a ten year review,” Mandiant’s annual M-Trends report and a trio of DOS bot analyses from Arbor Networks. Criminals stole £71K in bitcoins from UKweb host Linode. The Library of Congress, Panda Security and the Vatican were all cyber attack victims. We have six Microsoft security bulletins coming next week.  Adobe released a new Flash Player update. And someone is targeting malware at opponents of newly re-elected Russian President Vladimir Putin.
This week, Imperva succeeded in improving the risk intelligence signal-to-noise ratio. Worth reading: Imperva’s report on an Anonymous attack on the Vatican’s web site that was highlighted in the New York Times. Their infographic for the attack is here. However, in a follow-up article they label anti-virus as “useless” and “ineffective.” For this specific incident that might be true, but without some qualifications, these adjectives are hyperbole. As with many things in security, you’re never sure about all of your wins. Anti-virus is essential but not omnipotent. Webroot’s Dancho Danchev reports the BlackHole exploit kit has been updated. Wikileaks began releasing emails and documents stolen from Stratfor, but Stratfor might have the last laugh if Julian “proff” Assange is indeed indicted. Not even Russia Today could declare the Occupy movement’s attempted resuscitation as successful.
Your iron(y) for the week:  Anonymous, without hacking or DoSing, hijacked the Wall Street Journal’s Facebook page Tuesday to express their criticism of a WSJ article on the power of Anonymous.  No data breach or network outage, but it demonstrates a general risk in social media for a business’ message to be hijacked. What was a tool yesterday was used as a weapon against the business today.  Intellectual attacks on the premise of whether Anonymous could pose a risk to the electrical grid in coming years lack an appreciation of the need to “what if” intellectually, so as to avoid “why weren’t we warned/prepared?” later.  More practical and tactical intelligence this week includes AlienVault’s Open Threat Exchange and Metasploit 4.2 with 54 new exploits and IPv6 functionality. Bank Hapoalim, Israel’s largest bank was targeted by criminals appearing to come from, not China, but Iran. However, bank officials stated the attack was thwarted. The “attack targeted personal computers used for browsing and email,” implying an email-borne attack.
Updates, attack reports and superb intel reports galore this week: Microsoft, Adobe, Adobe again, Mozilla, Chrome, Java and Real Player. DoS attacks caused intermittent connectivity on at least five stock exchange web sites without interrupting trading.  It would be surprising if there were no DoS attacks leading up to Russian elections. The reader’s attention is invited to useful intelligence reports released this week on electronic health care records by Megapath, threats to industrial control systems from ICS-CERT, advanced malware threats from Fireeye, DNS abuse from ISC, domain registration abuse from Knujon and SypEye from Damballa. Also, Bluecoat published their report on “Malnets” and Fortinet has a very good 3-part series, “Anatomy of a Crimeware Syndicate” beginning at this link. We all knew we were going to have to pay for those slow weeks.
A Zeus variant some AV’s call “Citadel” has received considerable attention recently, but we know that malware criminals are almost constantly modifying their wares to avoid detection and to add features. Citadel may develop into a significant risk, but in spite of its press, it appears to the RISK Team to be just another Trojan. Malware exploiting a Microsoft Office (Word) vulnerability patched in September was spotted by Symantec in targeted attacks. Cathal Mullaney at Symantec reported on “A Million-Dollar Mobile Botnet,” and no one on the RISK Team was surprised to learn it runs on Android. Webroot and M86 reported on web exploits attacking visitor’s browsers. Websense reported Blackhole related injection attacks disguised as Google Analytics code. Over the weekend ACTA protests are expected in Europe and Microsoft pre-notified for nine security bulletins on Tuesday of next week. Finally, the RSA Conference will be in a couple weeks. There’s going to be plenty of attention-seeking behavior in the InfoSec community. All of it will probably be true, but very little will ever become problems.
Best InfoSec risk intel this week: please read Imperva’s Business Logic Attack report. John Levine on the CircleID blog nailed it: “World Notices That Verisign Said Three Months Ago That They Had a Security Breach Two Years Ago.” Verisign said: “we do not believe that the operational integrity of the Domain Name System (DNS) was compromised.” Verisign also said, “non-production corporate network,” and “Information stored on the compromised corporate systems was exfiltrated.” That is what we know. Everything else is either generalizations about data breaches or is just conjecture; be very skeptical. A colleague-to-colleague appeal to Verisign: Contribute to the community and to our profession and provide us with enough details for mutual defense. If it was just another spear-phishing-delivered-PDF-Trojan, fine–but please say so.  We don’t want your dirty laundry. We do all want to keep our own houses in order.  Anonymous attacked four banks in Brazil.  In Australia, criminals breached hoster Fairfax and domain trader Netfleet. And another round of attacks transforming WordPress into malware distribution platforms is underway.
In terms of risk to Verizon Security customers, the most significant developments this week revolve around governance issues in Europe. Data protection, privacy and anti-piracy laws, regulations and agreements are in flux and regardless of the final outcomes, the changes themselves are costly. Predictably, Anonymous finds only fault with these developments, thus attacks and threats of attacks are among this week’s intel collections. The RISK Team had to dip into our reserves of skepticism in the face of reports of railway hacking in the the northwestern US. Early reports have an aroma similar to hacked water pumps.  Symantec pcAnywhere needs to be updated, but we assess calls to disrupt operations are hype. On the other hand, Trend Micro’s report of malware exploiting a vulnerability from a January Microsoft security bulletin reflects an in the wild risk. So far, that risk has very limited scope.
The period of tedium in risk intelligence ended last week. An already busy week was capped when Digital Bond announced serious, but non-specific vulnerabilities in six control systems. This happened at their S4 conference under the auspices of creating a “Firesheep moment.” We could interpret that to mean some sort of wake up call to the industry, but happily (for them) it also self-serves to drive business for Digital Bond and attendance at future conferences. In conjunction with Rapid7, PLC exploit modules are being released increasing risk in the short-term for any organizations running those systems. Since these are control systems, this action impacts not just hardware, but potentially the day-to-day lives of people. Persons exhibiting a blunted affect cannot appreciate that they are affecting risk much more significantly than the incrementing vulnerability aspect of risk – unskilled and apathetic attackers will probably add these exploits to their existing attack portfolios, at much lower cost to them. Evidence of long-term benefits of actions like these is specious, given the supply of bugs seems to significantly exceed demand. Ultimately, an artificial increase in risk highlights the inherent conflicts of interest (the only clear winner here is Digital Bond). There are much better, scalable ways to get a point across – and truly reduce risk to control systems - than by jeopardizing infrastructure.
Paraphrasing Lenin: the last couple weeks nothing has happened; in all likelihood, we’ll soon pay for them with a week when decades happen. The significant InfoSec risk data point this week was Microsoft Tuesday with seven bulletins and one Adobe bulletin. In the coming week, Oracle will release a CPU with 78 fixes for vulnerabilities in Oracle, PeopleSoft and Sun Solaris product lines. Wired declared Anonymous to be the net’s immune system. But an analyst is compelled to assess if Anonymous is becoming symptomatic of an autoimmune disease. This week, an entity self-identifying as Anonymous (yes, we get the contradiction) claimed responsibility for attacking IP organizations, control systems, a steel company, a site related to an MMORPG and Sony Pictures’ Facebook page. Attackers with affinity to Anonymous have a lengthy history of collateral damage or just plain misses.
0.006 Percent. Technical media headlines exploded Thursday night after Seculert blogged that the Ramnit worm had compromised 45,000 Facebook users. But the headlines don’t read “Six one-thousandths of one percent of Facebook users infected!” One cannot make reasonable intelligence assessments while running around with one’s hair on fire upon seeing the number 45,000 in a headline. Sorry, Seculert, but our assessment is “noted.” The RISK Team regards it as a teaching opportunity. Analysts should avoid the seductive pull big numbers have. One must also assess context to arrive at risk. Readers of this blog are almost certainly (93% ±6%) using at least one risk mitigation measure that excludes them from the 45K; e.g. not being on Facebook to start with. So, in context, their risk is negligible. Noted. Move on to real risks.
Microsoft issued an out-of-cycle security bulletin for four vulnerabilities in ASP.NET. Recall that large scale ASP.NET attacks took place recently (using unrelated vulnerabilities). It’s not too great a leap to give Microsoft a “trust me” and roll the bulletin out in 30 days or less.  Stratfor was compromised and the RISK Team is more concerned about the 2.7 million e-mail messages than the 860K users, 50K e-mail addresses and 68K credit cards.  The Care2 social network was also breached to the tune of 17 million users. The RISK Team extends to our colleagues wishes for a happy and prosperous New Year and for our adversaries to mend their wicked ways in 2012.

